the release of a new video by Hamas
claiming to show two hostages being held
in Gaza is renewing pressure on Israel's
government to secure the release of all
those still being held Israeli foreign
minister Israel Katz has suggested that
a planned assault on Rafa could be
suspended if a hostage deal can be
struck with Hamas which carried out the
October 7 terror attack and there are
reports that such a deal may be close as
public anger
grows a sea of white and blue flags on
the streets of Tel Aviv thousands of
Israelis demanding that the government
bring their compatriots
home but after almost 7 months of war
and with no hostage deal in sight many
are turning their fury on prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu and his right-wing
government families of the hostages we
gathered to call upon the cabinet
members get out of government if you
can't secure a deal now this is job
number one of the government of Israel
job number one and they failed
dramatically they should go all the
governments all the 64 members this
protest was further inflamed by a video
released by Hamas that appeared to show
two hostages taken during the October
7th terror attack Netanyahu and his
government insist that securing the
release of all hostages is their top
priority but many are losing faith that
Israeli leaders are really doing all
that they
can I want for elections to be held not
in a year or two but right now as soon
as possible I want all the hostages back
because I can see the government does
not want them back they want to make
this war go as long as possible we've
been terrorized by our government by our
leadership for more than 6 mon
they they they haven't been doing
whatever they needed to do as Hamas
considers Israel's latest proposal for a
ceasefire in Gaza negotiators have
hinted that a hostage deal might be
close but that's a message these
protesters have been hearing for
months and their patience is running
[Applause]
out DW correspondent Rebecca RS is in
Jerusalem for us Rebecca hi there Hamas
released a new hostage video on Saturday
it's the second this week what can you
tell us about that and how it might be
influencing the debate over a ceas fire
deal in
Israel well Jared it is the second that
we've seen this week and I think the
timing is no coincidence it's the
Passover holiday here uh one of the
highest holidays in the Jewish calendar
time when families gather to discuss uh
you know the year and of course this
year the events of October 7 will be
very present at everyone's mind as as
will the hostages uh now Israel
maintains that these videos are
psychological warfare you don't see them
played on the media here in Israel they
are no doubt an attempt by Hamas to try
to put pressure on the ceasefire
negotiations but just how effective they
are compared to all the pressure that
Israel is already under when it comes to
securing a ceasefire agreement is
difficult to say but it no doubt adds to
the noise and after this video was
released we heard a statement from uh in
response from the hostage family saying
the government has to decide between
Rafa an incursion in Rafa in in southern
Gaza and the hostages so you know you
know can of hear the the the underlying
statement in that and we saw as you just
saw in that report there tens of
thousands of people taking to the
streets consecutively for another week
of anti-government protests calling for
more to be done putting more pressure on
the government to come to some kind of
deal or back face elections now Rebecca
you mentioned Rafa Israel's foreign
minister has held out the prospect that
the planned offensive there could be
suspended or postponed if a hostage deal
is indeed reached with Hamas what can
you tell us about the likelihood of
that well I think if a deal is reached
Jared then it will have to be in
conjunction with some plan to hold off
on the raffer offensive so yeah I think
Eva deal is reach then we will see a
suspension to those plans I think the
question is whether or not a deal is
going to be able to be reached and of
course that's a lot more difficult to
answer uh we've seen a Revival of these
ceasefire talks in recent days with
Egyptian officials here in Israel to
discuss them with Israeli officials now
we know that a counter Israeli plan or
offer has been taken back for Hamas
officials to to look at and and consider
but we're seeing both sides still very
much kind of digging down in their in
their sides and and creating that
stalemate that we've been seeing for
months now Hamas calling for an all out
permanent ceasefire withdraw all of
Israeli troops and the allowance of
people from the South to be able to
relocate back up into the north of Gaza
that is something that Israel has said
is an absolute red line and it will not
agree to so whether or not these talks
bring any fresh you know agreement or or
movement of course remains to be seen
and we'll just have to see in the coming
days how Hamas
respond to this current uh proposal
that's on the table that was our
correspondent Rebecca rers in Jerusalem
Rebecca thanks a lot for that